# Sample questions

1. You are migrating your on-premises data center to Google Compute Engine, and need to calculate the number of vCPUs to support your current CPU processing workload. Your data center has four servers, each with two dual-core CPUs. How many vCPUs would your instances need in total to support the same workload without compromising performance?

- [ ] A 64
- [ ] B 32
- [ ] C 8
- [ ] D 16

2. What statements regarding data management in Cloud Storage are correct? (Choose 2 answers)

- [ ] A Lifecycle management can be based on the data's creation time, age, or the number of prior versions.
- [ ] B Without bucket versioning enabled, delete commands in lifecycle management are complete and irreversible.
- [ ] C Lifecycle management configurations go into effect immediately.
- [ ] D Cloud Storage has a time limit of 1095 days for all data before archival or deletion is required.

3. App Engine Standard Environments allow different runtimes. Three of them are Python 2.7, PHP, and Java 7. Which other runtimes are supported?

- [ ] A Go and Swift
- [ ] B Swift and Rust
- [ ] C Go and Ruby
- [ ] D Go only

4. What type of firewall rule(s) does Google Cloud's networking support?

- [ ] A deny
- [ ] B allow & deny
- [ ] C allow
- [ ] D allow, deny & filtered

5. Which of these statements about resilience testing are true? (Select 2 answers.)

- [ ] A In order for an application to survive instance failures, it should not be stateless.
- [ ] B In a resilience test, your application should keep running with little or no downtime.
- [ ] C Resilience testing is the same as disaster recovery testing.
- [ ] D To test the resilience of an autoscaling instance group, you can terminate a random instance within that group.

6. How do you ensure that the Debian packages are updated every time a Linux instance is restarted?

- [ ] A By running apt-get update as a part of the startup script 
- [ ] B None of these
- [ ] C By running apt-get update manually after the instance is booted
- [ ] D By running apt-get update as a part of the autoexec.bat script 

7. Which of the following would not reduce your recovery time in the event of a disaster?

- [ ] A Make it as easy as possible to adjust the DNS record to cut over to your warm standby server.
- [ ] B Replace your active/active hybrid production environment (on-premises and GCP) with a warm standby server.
- [ ] C Use a highly preconfigured machine image for deploying new instances.
- [ ] D Replace your warm standby server with a hot standby server.

8. Which of the following statements about Stackdriver Trace are true? (Select 2 answers.)

- [ ] A To make an application work with Stackdriver Trace, you need to add instrumentation code using the Trace SDK or Trace API, even if the application is in App Engine.
- [ ] B Stackdriver Trace tracks the latency of incoming requests.
- [ ] C Stackdriver Trace tracks the performance of the virtual machines running the application.
- [ ] D Applications in App Engine automatically submit traces to Stackdriver Trace. Applications outside of App Engine need to use the Trace SDK or Trace API.

9. Which combination of Stackdriver services will alert you about errors generated by your applications and help you locate the root cause in the code?

- [ ] A Monitoring and Error Reporting
- [ ] B Monitoring, Trace, and Debugger
- [ ] C Debugger and Error Reporting
- [ ] D Debugger and Trace

10. Considering your zonal resources in GCP, how can you provide the greatest amount of availability and fault tolerance to withstand outages and failures?

- [ ] A By putting them in different data centers
- [ ] B By putting them in different regions
- [ ] C By putting them in different zones
- [ ] D By putting them in different subnets

11. Which sentence most accurately describes a method of exposing a GKE service running in pods to external traffic from the public internet?

- [ ] A In the GKE web console, the user can navigate to the relevant pod configuration page and click on ‘Expose’ button to generate a service.
- [ ] B Using the Google Cloud SDK or Cloud Shell, users can generate a NodePort daemonset that acts as a load balancer for external HTTP requests.
- [ ] C Using the gcloud CLI tools, users create a deployment that will automatically create a ClusterIP controller for managing external traffic.
- [ ] D In the GKE web console, users must first create a load balancer by clicking on the ‘Networking’ menu. Once it is generated they can configure the load balancer to send traffic directly to the containers open ports.

12. Which statements about application load testing are true? (Select 2 answers.)

- [ ] A Your load tests should include testing sudden increases in traffic.
- [ ] B It is not necessary to test sudden increases in traffic since GCP scales seamlessly.
- [ ] C You should test at the maximum load that you expect to encounter.
- [ ] D You should test at 50% more than the maximum load that you expect to encounter.

13. As a solution architect, you manage multiple applications. You are reviewing Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and considering which applications could migrate to the service without extensive rebuilds. 

Which applications could migrate successfully without requiring a rebuild? (Choose 3 answers)

- [ ] A Applications that require a GCP-managed service
- [ ] B Applications with a microservice design
- [ ] C Applications running on non-Docker containers.
- [ ] D Applications running a Linux operating system

14. When using _______________ for storage, you will lose data when your GCE instance is shut down or rebooted. (Choose 2 answers)

- [ ] A RAM disks
- [ ] B Persistent SSD disks
- [ ] C Standard persistent disks
- [ ] D Local SSD

15. Which of the following options allows you to execute a script every time your instance boots up?

- [ ] A You can create your own startup scripts on your VM to execute a script every time your instance boots up.
- [ ] B You can add an entry in the Windows registry to execute a script every time your instance boots up.
- [ ] C You can create and reboot the scripts and copy it to your instance manually to execute a script every time your instance boots up.
- [ ] D You can create an autoexec.bat file and attach it to your instance to execute a script every time your instance boots up.

16. Which two instance data storage services are ideal for temporary data? (Select all that apply.)

- [ ] A SSD Persistent Disks
- [ ] B Local SSDs
- [ ] C Standard Persistent Disks
- [ ] D RAM Disks

17. Which type of storage class has the highest availability?

- [ ] A Regional storage
- [ ] B Coldline storage
- [ ] C Multi-regional storage
- [ ] D Nearline storage

18. What option does Cloud SQL offer to help with high availability?

- [ ] A The AlwaysOn setting
- [ ] B Point-in-time recovery
- [ ] C Snapshots
- [ ] D Failover replicas

19. Which statement about GCP Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) networks is false?

- [ ] A Instances within VPCs can send/receive IPv6 traffic.
- [ ] B They support network peering.
- [ ] C They support TCP, UDP and ICMP protocols.
- [ ] D They are global resources.

20. Which of these is not a recommended method of authenticating an application with a Google Cloud service?

- [ ] A Use the gcloud and/or gsutil commands.
- [ ] B Use one of the Google Cloud Client Libraries.
- [ ] C Embed the service account's credentials in the application's source code.
- [ ] D Request an OAuth2 access token and use it directly.

21. Can a persistent disk be attached to multiple Google Compute Engine instances?

- [ ] A Yes, a single persistent disk can be attached to multiple devices but only to perform write operation.
- [ ] B Yes, a single persistent disk can be attached to multiple instances, but only if the disk is in read-only mode.
- [ ] C No, a single persistent disk can be attached only to a single GCE instance.
- [ ] D No, because a single persistent disk cannot be partitioned to serve multiple GCE instances.

22. You are using an instance configured as a NAT Gateway to give access to GCE instances that do not have external IP addresses. What should you bear in mind? (Choose 2 answers)

- [ ] A The NAT Gateway is a single point of failure.
- [ ] B NAT Gateways are ideal for existing connections that have an existing on-premise company network.
- [ ] C NAT Gateways are an ideal way to check instances for day-to-day issues.
- [ ] D The NAT Gateway cannot manage high levels of traffic for multiple instances.

23. Regarding Compute Engine: when executing a startup script on a Linux server which user does the instance execute the script as?

- [ ] A The Google provided "gceinstance" user
- [ ] B ubuntu
- [ ] C Whatever user you specify in the console
- [ ] D root

24. What scheme is used by Google Compute Engine to create persistent disk snapshots that offer better performance and lower storage charges?

- [ ] A Differential
- [ ] B Multilevel Incremental
- [ ] C Byte level incremental
- [ ] D Incremental

25. Suppose you have a web server that is working properly, but you can't connect to its instance VM over SSH. Which of these troubleshooting methods can you use without disrupting production traffic? (Select 3 answers.)

- [ ] A Use netcat to try to connect to port 22
- [ ] B Access the serial console output
- [ ] C Attach the disk to a new instance
- [ ] D Create a snapshot of the disk and use it to create a new disk; then attach the new disk to a new instance

26. Which statement about IP address pricing in Google Cloud is correct?

- [ ] A An unused static external IP address cost more than a used static external IP address.
- [ ] B You are charged for static external IP addresses, but not ephemeral external IP addresses.
- [ ] C You are charged for both internal and external IP addresses.
- [ ] D External IP addresses are more expensive for preemptible VMs than for Standard VMs.

27. Does Cloud Dataflow process batch data pipelines or streaming data pipelines?

- [ ] A Only Streaming Data Pipelines
- [ ] B None of the above
- [ ] C Both Batch and Streaming Data Pipelines
- [ ] D Only Batch Data Pipelines

28. Which tool allows you to sync data in your Google domain with an LDAP or Active Directory?

- [ ] A Google LDAP Sync
- [ ] B Google Active Directory (GAD)
- [ ] C Google Cloud Directory Sync (GCDS)
- [ ] D Google Domain Sync Service

29. You are an architect helping an enterprise customer deploy their application on Google Compute Engine. The customer's IT team already created two projects, for marketing and sales departments, within the US-Central1 region.

The network topology, firewall rules, and routes are identical for the marketing and sales projects. The IT manager wants your help in designing a single network that will be shared by applications running within the sales and marketing projects.

Which statement regarding your VPC network(s) that will contain the marketing and sales resources is correct, and can help your IT manager design the best solution?

- [ ] A All VPC networks are global resources, so every VPC and its subnets can be shared between the marketing and sales projects running in the same region.
- [ ] B While VPCs are global, subnets are regional, so VPCs can be used by different projects but subnets must be used by a single project to maintain proper security.
- [ ] C VPCs cannot be used by different projects, so sales and marketing must design separate networks within separate VPCs.
- [ ] D Although VPCs are global resources, sales and marketing need to use a shared VPC to access the same resources in specific subnets.

30. If you have configured Stackdriver Logging to export logs to BigQuery, but logs entries are not getting exported to BigQuery, what is the most likely cause?

- [ ] A There isn't a firewall rule allowing traffic between Stackdriver and BigQuery.
- [ ] B The size of the Stackdriver log entries being exported exceeds the maximum capacity of the BigQuery dataset.
- [ ] C The Cloud Data Transfer Service has not been enabled.
- [ ] D Stackdriver Logging does not have permission to write to the BigQuery dataset.

31. Which types of external IP addresses are supported by forwarding rule in Google Compute Engine?

- [ ] A IPV4 and IPV6
- [ ] B Static and ephemeral IP address
- [ ] C Elastic IP and floating IP address
- [ ] D DHCP and GIADDR IP address

32. Each transaction in a Google Cloud Datastore is guaranteed to be ____.

- [ ] A retried
- [ ] B atomic
- [ ] C read-only
- [ ] D propagated

33. If you have object versioning enabled on a multi-regional bucket, what will the following lifecycle config file do?

```json
{"lifecycle": {
  "rule": [ {
      "action": {"type": "Delete"},
      "condition": {
        "age": 30,
        "isLive": true } },
  {  "action": {
        "type": "SetStorageClass",
        "storageClass": "COLDLINE"},
      "condition": {
        "age": 365,
        "matchesStorageClass": ["MULTI_REGIONAL"] } } ] } }
```

- [ ] A Archive objects older than 30 days and move objects to Coldline Storage after 365 days
- [ ] B Delete objects older than 30 days and move objects to Coldline Storage after 365 days
- [ ] C Archive objects older than 30 days (the second rule doesn't do anything)
- [ ] D Delete objects older than 30 days (the second rule doesn't do anything)

34. Which of the following does Google Cloud Storage use to manage bucket and object access?

- [ ] A Roles
- [ ] B Permissions
- [ ] C ACLs
- [ ] D Security Groups

35. Within GCE, you assign a user a predefined editor role at the organizational level, and he has a view-only role at the project level. What will occur due to this role inconsistency?

- [ ] A The user will have editor level access at the project level for all projects.
- [ ] B The user will continue to have viewer-level access where specified at the project level.
- [ ] C You will have to re-confirm the user's viewer level access before he/she can continue to access the project.
- [ ] D The user will not be able to access projects where this inconsistency is present until it is resolved.

36. GCP does not recommend editing the default permissions for `____________________`, to avoid breaking service functionality for features such as auto scaling.

- [ ] A VM instance service accounts
- [ ] B user-managed service accounts
- [ ] C Google API service accounts
- [ ] D IAM service accounts

37. Which of the follow methods will not cause a shutdown script to be executed?

- [ ] A When an instance shuts down through a request to the guest operating system
- [ ] B A preemptible instance being terminated
- [ ] C Shutting down via the cloud console
- [ ] D An instances.reset API call

38. Which of the following statements about encryption on GCP is not true?

- [ ] A If you want to manage your own encryption keys for data on Google Cloud Storage, the only option is Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK) using Cloud KMS.
- [ ] B Each encryption key is itself encrypted with a set of master keys.
- [ ] C Google Cloud Platform encrypts customer data stored at rest by default.
- [ ] D Data in Google Cloud Platform is broken into subfile chunks for storage, and each chunk is encrypted at the storage level with an individual encryption key.

39. To configure Stackdriver to monitor a web server and notify you if it goes down, what steps do you need to take? (Choose 2 answers)

- [ ] A Create an alerting policy
- [ ] B Create an uptime check
- [ ] C Install the Stackdriver Monitoring Agent on the web server
- [ ] D Install the Stackdriver Logging Agent on the web server

40. Which GCP Hybrid Connectivity service can connect your GCP and on-premise networks with the highest level of availability, the lowest level of latency, and the least potential points of network failure?

- [ ] A Dedicated Interconnect
- [ ] B Carrier Peering
- [ ] C Partner Interconnect
- [ ] D Cloud VPN

41. What statement(s) about GCP managed, multi-regional resources are correct? (Select all that apply)

- [ ] A They optimize consistency and latency.
- [ ] B They optimize efficiency and availability.
- [ ] C They are distributed in and across multiple regions.
- [ ] D They are distributed in and across multiple zones.

42. Which of these statements about Microsoft licenses is true?

- [ ] A You can migrate your existing Microsoft Windows licenses to Compute Engine instances, but not your Microsoft application licenses.
- [ ] B You can migrate your existing Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances, but not your Microsoft Windows licenses.
- [ ] C You can migrate your existing Microsoft Windows and Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances.
- [ ] D You cannot migrate your existing Microsoft Windows or Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances.

43. App Engine's datastore is built on top of `_____`, a large, distributed key-value store that is built to scale.

- [ ] A Cloud SQL
- [ ] B Bigtable
- [ ] C Hbase
- [ ] D Cassandra

44. The data science team wants to infrequently run a number of very short-lived data processing jobs in Google Cloud Platform. These workloads will take anywhere from a few minutes to an hour or so to run, and there is no concern about downtime if a job fails to complete due to VM failure. What type of Compute Engine instance would be the most cost-effective to recommend to the team for this work?

- [ ] A Preemptible
- [ ] B Committed Use
- [ ] C Custom Machine
- [ ] D Flexible App Engine Environment

45. It is actually possible to transfer data from GCP to AWS, and vice versa. Which of these tools can you use to copy data from Amazon S3 to Cloud Storage? (Select 2 answers.)

- [ ] A Cloud Storage Transfer Service
- [ ] B Cloud Storage Console
- [ ] C gsutil
- [ ] D S3 Storage Transfer Service

46. Single sign-on (SSO) with G Suite is based on _____?

- [ ] A Service accounts
- [ ] B JWT
- [ ] C JSON
- [ ] D SAML2

47. You are designing an app that stores user session data, and want the app to be highly available. The user session data will be stateful. Why would storing stateful data on a Cloud Engine multi-zone instance group be problematic for a highly available application? (Select all answers that apply.)

- [ ] A Instance storage is recommended for temporary data only
- [ ] B If an instance crashes, users' session data will be lost
- [ ] C Instance data is not centralized, so it is not horizontally scalable
- [ ] D In highly available services, data warehouses like BigQuery are essential for real-time stateful data storage

48. Which of the following practices can help you develop more secure software? (Select 3 answers.)

- [ ] A Encrypting your source code
- [ ] B Peer review of code
- [ ] C Penetration tests
- [ ] D Integrating static code analysis tools into your CI/CD pipeline

49. Which of the following is not a valid metric for triggering autoscaling?

- [ ] A App Engine Task Queues
- [ ] B Stackdriver Monitoring metrics
- [ ] C Google Cloud Pub/Sub queuing
- [ ] D Average CPU utilization

50. When an instance is created in Google Compute Engine, it is assigned a(n) ________________________ by default.

- [ ] A floating IP address
- [ ] B public IP address
- [ ] C elastic IP address
- [ ] D ephemeral IP address
