# Chapter 12 Leveraging Prebuilt Models as a Service

## Exam Essentials
**Understand the functionality of the Vision AI API.** The Vision AI API is designed to ana- lyze images and identify text, enable the search of images, and filter explicit images. Images are sent to the Vision AI API by specifying a URI path to an image or by sending the
image data as Base64-encoded text. There are three options for calling the Vision AI API: Google-supported client libraries, REST, and gRPC.

**Understand the functionality of the Video Intelligence API.** The Video Intelligence API provides models that can extract metadata; identify key persons, places, and things; and annotate video content. This service has pretrained models that automatically recognize objects in videos. Specifically, this API can be used to identify objects, locations, activities, animal species, products, and so on, and detect shot changes, detect explicit content, track objects, detect text, and transcribe videos.

**Understand the functionality of Dialogflow.** Dialogflow is used for chatbots, interactive voice response (IVR), and other dialogue-based interactions with human speech. The service is based on natural language–understanding technology that is used to identify entities in a con- versation and extract numbers, dates, and time, as well as custom entities that can be trained using examples. Dialogflow also provides prebuilt agents that can be used as templates.

**Understand the functionality of the Cloud Text-to-Speech API.** GCP’s Cloud Text-to- Speech API maps natural language texts to human-like speech. The API works with more than 30 languages and has more than 180 humanlike voices. The API works with plain- text or Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML) and audio files, including MP3 and WAV files. To generate speech, you call a synthesize function of the API.

**Understand the functionality of the Cloud Speech-to-Text API.** The Cloud Speech-to- Text API is used to convert audio to text. This service is based on deep learning technology and supports 120 languages and variants. The service can be used for transcribing audios as well as for supporting voice-activated interfaces. Cloud Speech-to-Text automatically detects the language being spoken. Generated text can be returned as a stream of text or in batches as a text file.

**Understand the functionality of the Cloud Translation API.** Google’s translation technology is available for use through the Cloud Translation API. The basic version of this service, Translation API Basic, enables the translation of texts between more than 100 languages. There is also an advanced API, Translation API Advanced, which supports customization for domain-specific and context-specific terms and phrases.

**Understand the functionality of the Natural Language API.** The Natural Language API uses machine learning–derived models to analyze texts. With this API, developers can extract information about people, places, events, addresses, and numbers, as well as other types of entities. The service can be used to find and label fields within semi-structured documents, such as emails. It also supports sentiment analysis. The Natural Language API has a set of more than 700 general categories, such as sports and entertainment, for document classification. For more advanced users, the service performs syntactic analysis that provides parts of speech labels and creates parse trees for each sentence. Users of the API can specify domain-specific keywords and phrases for entity extraction and custom labels for content classification.

**Understand the functionality of the Recommendations AI API.** The Recommendations AI API is a service for suggesting products to customers based on their behavior on the user’s website and the product catalog of that website. The service builds a recommendation model specific to the site. The product catalog contains information on products that are sold to customers, such as names of products, prices, and availability. End-user behavior
is captured in logged events, such as information about what customers search for, which products they view, and which products they have purchased. There are two primary func- tions the Recommendations AI API: ingesting data and making predictions.

**Understand the functionality of the Cloud Inference API.** The Cloud Inference API provides real-time analysis of time-series data. The Cloud Inference API provides for pro- cessing time-series datasets, including ingesting from JSON formats, removing data, and listing active datasets. It also supports inference queries over datasets, including correlation queries, variation in frequency over time, and probability of events given evidence of those events in the dataset.


## Review Questions

**1.** You are building a machine learning model to analyze unusual events in traffic through urban areas. Your model needs to distinguish cars, bikes, pedestrians, and buildings. It is especially important that the model be able to identify and track moving vehicles. Video will be streamed to your service from cameras mounted on traffic lights. What GCP service would you use for the object analysis and tracking?
- [x] A. Cloud Video Intelligence API
- [ ] B. Cloud Vision API
- [ ] C. Cloud Inference API
- [ ] D. Cloud Dataflow

```diff
+ A. The correct answer is A. The Cloud Video Intelligence API can identify objects and track objects across frames.
- Option B is incorrect because it cannot track objects across frames.
- Option C is incorrect because, although streaming traffic data is a form of time-series data, it does not support object recognition or object tracking.
- Option D is incorrect; Cloud Dataflow is a batch and stream processing service and may be used for its stream processing capabilities, but it does not have object identification or object tracking capabilities.
```

**2.** A startup is building an educational support platform for students from ages 5–18. The platform will allow teachers to post assignments and conduct assessments. Students will be able to upload content, including text and images. The founder of the startup wants to make sure that explicit images are not uploaded. What GCP service would you use?
- [ ] A. Cloud Video Intelligence API
- [x] B. Cloud Vision API
- [ ] C. Cloud Inference API
- [ ] D. Cloud Dataprep

```diff
+ B. The correct answer is B. The Cloud Vision API supports explicit content identification, also known as Safe Search.
- Option A is incorrect since there is no requirement to support video on the site.
- Option C is incorrect; the site does need to analyze time-series data, which is what Cloud Inference API is used for.
- Option D is incorrect; Cloud Dataprep is used to prepare data for analysis and machine learning.
```

**3.** You are using the Cloud Vision API to detect landmarks in images. You are using the batch processing with asynchronous requests. The source images for each batch is in a separate Cloud Storage bucket. There are between 1 and 5,000 images in each bucket. Each batch request processes one bucket. All buckets have the same access controls. Sometimes, the operations succeed and sometimes they fail. What could be the cause of the errors?
- [ ] A. Cloud Video Intelligence API
- [x] B. Some buckets have more than 2,000 images.
- [ ] C. There is an issue with IAM settings.
- [ ] D. Images have to be uploaded directly from a device, not a Cloud Storage bucket.

```diff
+ B. The correct answer is B. The Cloud Vision API supports up to 2,000 images per batch.
- Option A is incorrect because if the wrong function were called, none of the operations would succeed.
- Option C is incorrect since all buckets have the same access controls and some operations succeed.
- Option D is incorrect; images are loaded from Cloud Storage buckets.
```

**4.** Your team is building a chatbot to support customer support. Domain experts from the customer support team have identified several kinds of questions that the system should support, including questions about returning products, getting technical help, and asking for product recommendations. You will use Dialogflow to implement the chatbot. What component of Dialogflow will you configure to support the three question types?
- [ ] A. Entities
- [ ] B. Fulfillments
- [ ] C. Integrations
- [x] D. Intents

```diff
+ D. The correct answer is D. Intents categorize a speaker’s intention for a single statement, such as asking for a recommendation.
- Option A is incorrect; entities are nouns extracted from dialogue.
- Option B is incorrect; fulfillments are used to connect a service to an integration.
- Option C is incorrect; integrations are applications that process end-user interactions, such as deciding what to recommend.
```

**5.** A developer asks for your help tuning a text-to-speech service that is used with a health and wellness app. The app is designed to run on watches and other personal devices. The sound quality is not as good as the developer would like. What would you suggest trying to improve the quality of sound?
- [ ] A. Change the device specification to optimize for a wearable device
- [ ] B. Change from standard to WaveNet-quality voice
- [x] C. Encode the text in Base64
- [ ] D. Options A and B
- [ ] E. Options A, B, and C

```diff
+ C. The correct answer is C. Both changing the device specification to wearable and using WaveNet-quality voice will improve the output.
- Options A and B are both partially correct, but not a completely correct answer.
- Option D is incorrect; Base64 is an encoding for binary data, not text.
- Option E is incorrect because it includes Option C.
```

**6.** A developer asks for your help tuning a speech-to-text service that is used to transcribe text recorded on a mobile device. The quality of the transcription is not as good as expected. The app uses LINEAR16 encoding and a sampling rate of 12,000 Hz. What would you suggest to try to improve the quality?
- [ ] A. Use WaveNet option
- [x] B. Increase the sampling rate to at least 16,000 Hz
- [ ] C. Use Speech Synthesis Markup Language to configure conversion parameters
- [ ] D. Options A and B

```diff
+ B. The correct answer is B. Google recommends a minimum sampling rate of 16,000 Hz.
- Option A is incorrect; WaveNet is used for speech synthesis, not speech to text.
- Option C is incorrect; SSML is also for text to speech.
- Option D is incorrect because it includes Option A.
```

**7.** You have developed a mobile app that helps travelers quickly find sites of interest. The app uses the GCP Translation service. The initial release of the app used the REST API, but adoption has grown so much that you need higher performance from the API and plan to use gRCP instead. What changes do you need to make to the way that you use the Transla- tion service?
- [ ] A. Use the WaveNet option
- [ ] B. Use Translation API Basic
- [x] C. Use Translation API Advanced
- [ ] D. Option A or B

```diff
+ C. The correct answer is C. The gRPC API is only available with the advanced version of the Translation API.
- Option A is incorrect; WaveNet is a speech synthesis option, not a translation option.
- Option B is incorrect; the basic version does not provide a gRPC API.
- Option D is incorrect because Option A is included in the choices.
```

**8.** You are experimenting with the GCP Translation API. You have created a Jupyter Note- book and plan to use Python 3 to build a proof-of-concept system. What are the first two operations that you would execute in your notebook to start using the Translation API?
- [x] A. Import Translation libraries and create a translation client
- [ ] B. Create a translation client and encode text in UTF-8
- [ ] C. Create a translation client, and set a variable to TRANSLATE to pass in as a parameter to the API function call
- [ ] D. Import Translation libraries, and set a variable to TRANSLATE to pass in as a parameter to the API function call

```diff
+ A. The correct answer is A. The first two steps are to import libraries and to create a translation client data structure.
- Option B is incorrect because the translation client can’t be created when importing the libraries first.
- Options C and D are incorrect because there is no need to pass a parameter into the API with the operation when there is a specific function call for translating.
```

**9.** You have been hired by a law firm to help analyze a large volume of documents related
to a legal case. There are approximately 10,000 documents ranging from 1 to 15 pages in length. They are all written in English. The lawyers hiring you want to understand who is mentioned in each document so that they can understand how those individuals worked together. What functionality of the Natural Language API would you use?
- [x] A. Identifying entities
- [ ] B. Analyzing sentiment associated with each entity
- [ ] C. Analyzing sentiment of the overall text
- [ ] D. Generating syntactic analysis

```diff
+ A. The correct answer is A. The goal is to identify people, which are one kind of entity, so entity extraction is the correct functionality.
- Options B and C are incorrect because there is no requirement to understand the sentiment of the communications.
- Option D is incorrect because syntactic analysis does not help with identifying individuals.
```

**10.** As a founder of an e-commerce startup, you are particularly interested in engaging with your customers. You decide to use the GCP Recommendations AI API using the “others you may like” recommendation type. You want to maximize the likelihood that users will engage with your recommendations. What optimization objective would you choose?
- [x] A. Click-through rate (CTR)
- [ ] B. Revenue per order
- [ ] C. Conversation rate
- [ ] D. Total revenue

```diff
+ A. The correct answer is A. Click-through rate (CTR) is the default optimization, and it maximizes the likelihood that the user engages the recommendation. 
- Option B is incorrect; revenue per order is only available with the “frequently bought together” recommendation type.
- Option C is incorrect; conversation rate optimizes for the likelihood that the user purchases the recommended product.
- Option D is incorrect; total revenue is a metric for measuring performance, not an optimization objective.
```

**11.** Your e-commerce startup has been growing rapidly since its launch six months ago. You are starting to notice that the rate of revenue growth is slowing down. Your board of direc- tors is asking you to develop a strategy to increase revenue. You decide to personalize each customer’s experience. One of the ways in which you plan to implement your strategy is by showing customers products that they are likely to interact with next. What recommenda-
tion type would you use?
- [ ] A. Others you may like
- [ ] B. Frequently bought together
- [x] C. Recommended for you
- [ ] D. Recently viewed

```diff
+ C. The correct answer is C. Recommended for you predicts the next product with which the customer is likely to engage.
- Option A is incorrect; it provides a list of products that the customer is likely to purchase.
- Option B is incorrect; it provides a list of products often purchased together.
- Option D is incorrect; the recently viewed recommendation type provides a list of recently viewed items.
```

**12.** You work for an enterprise with a large fleet of vehicles. The vehicles are equipped with several sensors that transmit data about fuel utilization, speed, and other equipment oper- ating characteristics. The chief of operations has asked you to investigate the feasibility of building a predictive maintenance application that can help identify breakdowns before they occur. You decide to prototype an anomaly detection model as a first step. You want to build this as quickly as possible, so you decide to use a machine learning service. Which GCP service would you use?
- [x] A. Cloud Inference API
- [ ] B. AutoML Tables
- [ ] C. AutoML Vision
- [ ] D. Cloud Anomaly Detection API

```diff
+ A. The correct answer is A. The Cloud Inference API is designed for this kind of time-series analysis and anomaly detection.
- Option B is incorrect; AutoML Tables is for working with structured, tabular data.
- Option C is incorrect; this is not a vision problem.
- Option D is incorrect; there is no such thing as the Cloud Anomaly Detection API.
```
