# Chapter 6 Designing for Security and Compliance

## Identity and Access Management with Cloud IAM
Cloud IAM uses the concept of:
- roles, which are collections of permissions that can be assigned to iden- tities.
- Permissions are granted to roles, and then individuals can be assigned multiple roles to gain these permissions.

Along with roles, additional attributes about resources or identities, such as IP address and date and time, can be considered when making access control decisions; this is known as **context-aware access**.

Cloud IAM maintains an audit log of changes to permissions, including authorizing, removing, and delegating permissions.

To control access to resources in GCP use:
- Predefined roles
- Custom roles
- Using roles with service accounts
- Access controls with policies

In GCP, users, groups, service accounts, and G Suite domains are authorized to access resources by granting those identities roles.

GCP uses three types of roles:
- Primitive roles
- Predefined roles
- Custom roles

### Primitive roles
existed prior to the introduction of Cloud IAM. These roles apply at the project level and so are considered course- grained access controls. They include:
- The Viewer role grants read-only access resources.
- The Editor role includes all Viewer permissions plus the ability to modify the state of aresource.
- The Owner role includes all Editor role permissions and permissions to manage roles and permissions, along with setting up billing for a project.

you should not use primitive roles except in cases where coarse-grained access controls are acceptable. For example, you could use primitive roles to grant access to developers in a development environment, since the developers would be responsible for administering the development environment.

### Predefined Roles
associated with a GCP service, such as App Engine or BigQuery, and a set of related activities, such as editing data in a database or deploying an application to App Engine.

naming convention for roles is:
- start the role name with `roles/`
- followed by a string that identifies the service, such as `appengine`;
- followed by the type of entity to which the role applies, such as `instance` or `table`;
- followed by an operation, such as `get`, `list`, or `create`.

Example roles:
- roles/appengine.deployer
- roles/bigquery.user

the naming convention for permissions is: 
- the name of the service
- followed by a resource type specific to that service and
- an action on resources of that type.

An asterisk to indicate all types of actions applicable to the operation’s resource, such as `get`, `list`, and `create`.

Example permissions:
- appengine.operations.*
- appengine.services.get

### Access Control with Policies
You can also access resources based on the rules associated with the resource. These rules are called policies.
 
```json
{
  "bindings": [
    {
      "members": [
        "user:data-engineer@example.com"
       ],
      "role": "roles/resourcemanager.projectCreator"
    },
  ],
  "etag": "adjfadURHlad",
  "version": 1
}
```

Cloud IAM is a comprehensive service that provides for fine-grained access controls through the use of roles and policies. Predefined roles are available in Cloud IAM and are designed to group permissions needed for common use cases, such as administration of a database. Custom rules can be created when the predefined roles do not meet your specific needs, especially with respect to the principle of least privilege. Roles can also be used with service accounts to provide authorizations to VMs and applications. Also, access control policies can be used to control access to resources.

## Ensuring Privacy with the Data Loss Prevention API
### Detecting Sensitive Data
Google provides hundreds of InfoType detectors to identify known types of sensitive infor- mation, including
- Credit card numbers
- Dates of birth
- Email addresses
- Passport number
- Authentication tokens
- Passwords
There are also country-specific InfoType detectors, such as:
- U.S. Social Security numbers
- Indian GST identification number (GSTIN)
- Japanese bank account numbers
- Spanish national identity numbers
- Paraguay civil identity card numbers

### Inspection Best Practices
Google has identified several best practices for using the Data Loss Prevention API.
- First, you should inventory and prioritize the content you wish to scan. This is especially true if you have a large backlog of content that needs to be scanned. The data that is most at risk should be scanned first.
- Make sure that the Cloud DLP service account has all the correct roles to access your storage services.
- Start by sampling data and using simple matching criteria. This will help you identify which InfoType detectors you should use. You may find that your scans generate more false positives than are acceptable. In that case, you can create exclusion rules to reduce false positives.
- Schedule scans using job triggers. Scans can be configured to inspect only data that has changed since the last scan.

## Exam Essentials
**Understand the components of Cloud IAM.** Cloud IAM provides fine-grained identity and access management for resources within GCP. Cloud IAM uses the concept of roles, which are collections of permissions that can be assigned to identities. Cloud IAM provides a large number of roles tuned to common use cases, such as server administrators or data- base operators. Additional attributes about resources or identities, such as IP address and date and time, can be considered when making access control decisions. Cloud IAM main- tains an audit log of changes to permissions, including authorizing, removing, and delegat- ing permissions.

**Know the three types of roles**. Primitive roles existed prior to Cloud IAM and include Owner, Editor, and Viewer roles. Predefined roles are generally associated with a GCP ser- vice, such as App Engine or BigQuery, and a set of related activities, such as editing data in a database or deploying an application to App Engine. With custom roles, you can assign one or more permissions to a role and then assign that role to a user, group, or service account. Custom roles are especially important when implementing the principle of least privilege, which states that users should be granted the minimal set of permissions needed for them to perform their jobs.

**Understand the purpose of service accounts.** Service accounts are a type of identity that are used with VM instances and applications, which are able to make API calls authorized by roles assigned to the service account. A service account is identified by a unique email address. These accounts are authenticated by two sets of public/private keys. One set is managed by Google, and the other set is managed by users. Public keys are provided to API calls to authenticate the service account.

**Understand the structure and function of policies.** A policy consists of binding, metadata, and an audit configuration. Bindings specify how access is granted to a resource. Bindings are made up of members, roles, and conditions. The metadata of a policy includes an attri- bute called etag and versions. Audit configurations describe which permission types are logged and which identities are exempt from logging. Policies can be defined at different levels of the resource hierarchy, including organizations, folders, projects, and individual resources. Only one policy at a time can be assigned to an organization, folder, project, or individual resource.

**Understand data-at-rest encryption.** Encryption is the process of encoding data in a way that yields a coded version of data that cannot be practically converted back to the original form without additional information. Data at rest is encrypted by default on Google Cloud Platform. Data is encrypted at multiple levels, including the application, infrastructure, and device levels. Data is encrypted in chunks. Each chunk has its own encryption key, which
is called a data encryption key. Data encryption keys are themselves encrypted using a key encryption key.

**Understand data-in-transit encryption.** All traffic to Google Cloud services is encrypted by default. Google Cloud and the client negotiate how to encrypt data using either Transport Layer Security (TLS) or the Google-developed protocol QUICC.

**Understand key management.** Cloud KMS is a hosted key management service in the Google Cloud. It enables customers to generate and store keys in GCP. It is used when cus- tomers want control over key management. Customer-supplied keys are used when an orga- nization needs complete control over key management, including storage.

**Know the basic requirements of major regulations.** The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) is a federal law in the United States that protects individuals’ healthcare information. The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) is primar- ily focused on children under the age of 13, and it applies to websites and online services that collect information about children. The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) is a U.S. federal government program that promotes a standard approach to assessment, authorization, and monitoring of cloud resources. The European Union’s (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is designed to standardize pri- vacy protections across the EU, grant controls to individuals over their private information, and specify security practices required for organizations holding private information of EU citizens.


## Review Questions
**1.** You have been tasked with creating a pilot project in GCP to demonstrate the feasibility of migrating workloads from an on-premises Hadoop cluster to Cloud Dataproc. Three other engineers will work with you. None of the data that you will use contains sensitive informa- tion. You want to minimize the amount of time that you spend on administering the devel- opment environment. What would you use to control access to resources in the development environment?
- [ ] A. Predefined roles
- [ ] B. Custom roles
- [x] C. Primitive roles
- [ ] D. Access control lists

**2.** The auditors for your company have determined that several employees have more per- missions than needed to carry out their job responsibilities. All the employees have users accounts on GCP that have been assigned predefined roles. You have concluded that the optimal way to meet the auditors’ recommendations is by using custom roles. What permission is needed to create a custom role?
- [x] A. iam.roles.create
- [ ] B. iam.custom.roles
- [ ] C. roles/iam.custom.create
- [ ] D. roles/iam.create.custom

**3.** You have created a managed instance group in Compute Engine to run a high-performance computing application. The application will read source data from a Cloud Storage bucket and write results to another bucket. The application will run whenever new data is uploaded to Cloud Storage via a Cloud Function that invokes the script to start the job. You will need to assign the role roles/storage.objectCreator to an identity so that the application can write the output data to Cloud Storage. To what kind of identity would you assign the roles?
- [ ] A. User.
- [ ] B. Group.
- [x] C. Service account.
- [ ] D. You wouldn’t. The role would be assigned to the bucket.

**4.** Your company has implemented an organizational hierarchy consisting of two layers of folders and tens of projects. The top layer of folders corresponds to a department, and the second layer of folders are working groups within a department. Each working group has one or more projects in the resource hierarchy. You have to ensure that all projects comply with regulations, so you have created several policies. Policy A applies to all departments.
Policies B, C, D, and E are department specific. At what level of the resource hierarchy
would you assign each policy?
- [ ] A. Assign policies A, B, C, D, and E to each folder
- [ ] B. Assign policy A to the organizational hierarchy and policies B, C, D, and E to each department’s corresponding folder
- [x] C. Assign policy A to the organizational hierarchy and policies B, C, D, and E to each department’s corresponding projects
- [ ] D. Assign policy A to each department’s folder and policies B, C, D, and E to each project

**5.** Your startup is developing a mobile app that takes an image as input and produces a list of names of objects in the image. The image file is uploaded from the mobile device to a Cloud Storage bucket. A service account is associated with the server-side application that will retrieve the image. The application will not perform any other operation on the file or the bucket. Following the principle of least privilege, what role would you assign to the service account?
- [x] A. roles/storage.objectViewer
- [ ] B. roles/storage.objectAdmin
- [ ] C. roles/storage.objectCreator
- [ ] D. roles/storage.objectViewer and roles/storage.objectCreator

**6.** A data analyst asks for your help on a problem that users are having that involves BigQuery. The data analyst has been granted permissions to read the tables in a particular dataset. However, when the analyst runs a query, an error message is returned. What role would you think is missing from the users’ assigned roles?
- [ ] A. roles/BigQuery.admin
- [x] B. roles/BigQuery.jobUser
- [ ] C. roles/BigQuery.metadataViewer
- [ ] D. roles/BigQuery.queryRunner

**7.** Your company is subject to financial industry regulations that require all customer data to be encrypted when persistently stored. Your CTO has tasked you with assessing options for encrypting the data. What must you do to ensure that applications processing protected data encrypt it when it is stored on disk or SSD?
- [ ] A. Configure a database to use database encryption.
- [ ] B. Configure persistent disks to use disk encryption.
- [ ] C. Configure the application to use application encryption.
- [x] D. Nothing. Data is encrypted at rest by default.

**8.** Data can be encrypted at multiple levels, such as at the platform, infrastructure, and device levels. At the device level, how is data encrypted in the Google Cloud Platform?
- [x] A. AES256 or AES128 encryption
- [ ] B. Elliptic curve cryptography
- [ ] C. Data Encryption Standard (DES)
- [ ] D. Blowfish

**9.** In GCP, each data chunk written to a storage system is encrypted with a data encryption key. How does GCP protect the data encryption key so that an attacker who gained access to the storage system storing the key could not use it to decrypt the data chunk?
- [ ] A. GCP writes the data encryption key to a hidden location on disk.
- [x] B. GCP encrypts the data encryption key with a key encryption key.
- [ ] C. GCP stores the data encryption key in a secure Cloud SQL database.
- [ ] D. GCP applies an elliptic curve encryption algorithm for each data encryption key.

**10.** The CTO has asked you to participate in a prototype project to provide better privacy con- trols. The CTO asks you to run a risk analysis job on a text file that has been inspected by the Data Loss Prevention API. What is the CTO interested in knowing?
- [ ] A. The number of times sensitive information is redacted
- [ ] B. The percentage of text that is redacted
- [x] C. The likelihood that the data can be re-identified
- [ ] D. What InfoType patterns were detected

**11.** Your company is about to start a huge project to analyze a large number of documents to redact sensitive information. You would like to follow Google-recommended best practices. What would you do first?
- [ ] A. Identify InfoTypes to use
- [ ] B. Prioritize the order of scanning, starting with the most at-risk data
- [x] C. Run a risk analysis job first
- [ ] D. Extract a sample of data and apply all InfoTypes to it

**12.** Your startup is creating an app to help students with math homework. The app will track assignments, how long the student takes to answer a question, the number of incorrect answers, and so on. The app will be used by students ages 9 to 14. You expect to market the app in the United States. With which of the following regulations must you comply?
- [x] A. HIPAA
- [ ] B. GDPR
- [ ] C. COPPA
- [ ] D. FedRAMP
