# Chapter 7: Designing Databases for Reliability, Scalability, and Availability

## Exam Essentials

**Understand Cloud Bigtable is a nonrelational database based on a sparse three-dimensional map.** The three dimensions are rows, columns, and cells. When you create a Cloud Bigtable instance, you specify a number of type of nodes. These nodes manage metadata about the data stored in the Cloud Bigtable database, whereas the actual data is stored outside of the nodes on the Colossus filesystem. Within the Colossus filesystem, data is organized into sorted string tables, or SSTables, which are called tablets.

**Understand how to design row-keys in Cloud Bigtable.** In general, it is best to avoid monotonically increasing values or lexicographically close strings at the beginning of keys. When a using a multitenant Cloud Bigtable database, it is a good practice to use a tenant prefix in the row-key. String identifiers, such as a customer ID or a sensor ID, are good candidates for a row-key. Timestamps may be used as part of a row-key, but they should not be the entire row-key or the start of the row-key. Moving timestamps from the front of a row-key so that another attribute is the first part of the row-key is an example of field promotion. In general, it is a good practice to promote, or move toward the front of the key, values that are highly varied. Another way to avoid hotspots is to use salting.

**Know how to use tall and narrow tables for time-series databases.** Keep names short; this reduces the size of metadata since names are stored along with data values. Store few events within each row, ideally only one event per row; this makes querying easier. Also, storing multiple events increases the chance of exceeding maximum recommended row sizes. Design row-keys for looking up a single value or a range of values. Range scans are common in time-series analysis. Keep in mind that there is only one index on Cloud Bigtable tables.

**Know when to use interleaved tables in Cloud Spanner.** Use interleaved tables with a parent-child relationship in which parent data is stored with child data. This makes retrieving data from both tables simultaneously more efficient than if the data were stored separately and is especially helpful when performing joins. Since the data from both tables is co-located, the database has to perform fewer seeks to get all the needed data.

**Know how to avoid hotspots by designing primary keys properly.** Monotonically increasing keys can cause read and write operations to happen in few servers simultaneously instead of being evenly distributed across all servers. Options for keys include using the hash of a natural key; swapping the order of columns in keys to promote higher-cardinality attributes; using a universally unique identifier (UUID), specifically version 4 or later; and using bit-reverse sequential values.

**Know the differences between primary and secondary indexes.** Primary indexes are created automatically on the primary key. Secondary indexes are explicitly created using the CREATE INDEX command. Secondary indexes are useful when filtering in a query using a WHERE clause. If the column referenced in the WHERE clause is indexed, the index can be used for filtering rather than scanning the full table and then filtering. Secondary indexes are also useful when you need to return rows in a sort order other than the primary key order. When a secondary index is created, the index will store all primary key columns from the base table, all columns included in the index, and any additional columns specified in a STORING clause.

**Understand the organizational structure of BigQuery databases.** Projects are the high- level structure used to organize the use of GCP services and resources. Datasets exist within a project and are containers for tables and views. Access to tables and views are defined at the dataset level. Tables are collections of rows and columns stored in a columnar format, known as Capacitor format, which is designed to support compression and execution optimizations.

**Understand how to denormalize data in BigQuery using nested and repeated fields.** Denormalizing in BigQuery can be done with nested and repeated columns. A column that contains nested and repeated data is defined as a RECORD datatype and is accessed as a STRUCT in SQL. BigQuery supports up to 15 levels of nested STRUCTs.

**Know when and why to use partitioning and clustering in BigQuery.** Partitioning is the process of dividing tables into segments called partitions. BigQuery has three partition types: ingestion time partitioned tables, timestamp partitioned tables, and integer range partitioned tables. In BigQuery, clustering is the ordering of data in its stored format. Clustering is supported only on partitioned tables and is used when filters or aggregations are frequently used.

**Understand the different kinds of queries in BigQuery.** BigQuery supports two types of queries: interactive and batch queries. Interactive queries are executed immediately, whereas batch queries are queued and run when resources are available. The advantage of using these batch queries is that resources are drawn from a shared resource pool and batch queries do not count toward the concurrent rate limit, which is 100 concurrent queries. Queries are run as jobs, similar to jobs run to load and export data.

**Know that BigQuery can access external data without you having to import it into BigQuery first.** BigQuery can access data in external sources, known as federated sources. Instead of first loading data into BigQuery, you can create a reference to an external source. External sources can be Cloud Bigtable, Cloud Storage, and Google Drive. When accessing external data, you can create either permanent or temporary external tables. Permanent tables are those created in a dataset and linked to an external source. Temporary tables are useful for one-time operations, such as loading data into a data warehouse.

**Know that BigQuery ML supports machine learning in BigQuery using SQL.** BigQuery extends standard SQL with the addition of machine learning functionality. This allows BigQuery users to build machine learning models in BigQuery rather than programming models in Python, R, Java, or other programming languages outside of BigQuery.

## Review Questions
You can find the answers in the appendix.
**1.** You are investigating long latencies in Cloud Bigtable query response times. Most queries finish in less than 20 ms, but the 99th percentile queries can take up to 400 ms. You examine a Key Visualizer heatmap and see two areas with bright colors indicating hotspots. What could be causing those hotspots?
- [ ] A. Improperly used secondary index
- [ ] B. Less than optimal partition key
- [x] C. Improperly designed row-key
- [ ] D. Failure to use a read replica

**2.** An IoT startup has hired you to review their Cloud Bigtable design. The database stores data generated by over 100,000 sensors that send data every 60 seconds. Each row contains all the data for one sensor sent during an hour. Hours always start at the top of the hour. The row-key is the sensor ID concatenated to the hour of the day followed by the date. What change, if any, would you recommend to this design?
- [ ] A. Use one row per sensor and 60-second datasets instead of storing multiple datasets in a single row.
- [ ] B. Start the row keyrow-key with the day and hour instead of the sensor ID.
- [ ] C. Allow hours to start an any arbitrary time to accommodate differences in sensor clocks.
- [x] D. No change is recommended.

**3.** Your company has a Cloud Bigtable database that requires strong consistency, but it also requires high availability. You have implemented Cloud Bigtable replication and specified single-cluster routing in the app profile for the database. Some users have noted that they occasionally receive query results inconsistent with what they should have received. The problem seems to correct itself within a minute. What could be the cause of this problem?
- [ ] A. Secondary indexes are being updated during the query and return incorrect results when a secondary index is not fully updated.
- [ ] B. You have not specified an app configuration file that includes single-cluster routing and use of replicas only for failover.
- [x] C. Tablets are being moved between nodes, which can cause inconsistent query results.
- [ ] D. The row-key is not properly designed.

**4.** You have been tasked with migrating a MongoDB database to Cloud Spanner. MongoDB is a document database, similar to Cloud Firestore. You would like to maintain some of the document organization of the MongoDB design. What data type, available in Cloud Spanner, would you use to define a column that can hold a document-like structure?
- [ ] A. Array
- [ ] B. String
- [ ] C. STRUCT
- [x] D. JSON

**5.** An application using a Cloud Spanner database has several queries that are taking longer to execute than the users would like. You review the queries and notice that they all involve joining three or more tables that are all related hierarchically. What feature of Cloud Spanner would you try in order to improve the query performance?
- [ ] A. Replicated clusters
- [x] B. Interleaved tables
- [ ] C. STORING clause
- [ ] D. Execution plans

**6.** A Cloud Spanner database is using a natural key as the primary key for a large table. The natural key is the preferred key by users because the values are easy to relate to other data. Database administrators notice that these keys are causing hotspots on Cloud Spanner nodes and are adversely affecting performance. What would you recommend in order to improve performance?
- [ ] A. Keep the data of the natural key in the table but use a hash of the natural key as the primary key
- [x] B. Keep the natural key and let Cloud Spanner create more splits to improve performance
- [ ] C. Use interleaved tables
- [ ] D. Use more secondary indexes

**7.** You are using a UUID as the primary key in a Cloud Spanner database. You have noticed hotspotting that you did not anticipate. What could be the cause?
- [ ] A. You have too many secondary indexes.
- [ ] B. You have too few secondary indexes.
- [x] C. You are using a type of UUID that has sequentially ordered strings at the beginning of the UUID.
- [ ] D. You need to make the maximum length of the primary key longer.

**8.** You are working for a financial services firm on a Cloud Bigtable database. The database stores equity and bond trading information from approximately 950 customers. Over 10,000 equities and bonds are tracked in the database. New data is received at a rate of 5,000 data points per minute. What general design pattern would you recommend?
- [ ] A. Tall and narrow table
- [ ] B. One table for each customer
- [ ] C. One table for equities and one for bonds
- [x] D. Option A and Option B
- [ ] E. Option A and Option C

**9.** You have been brought into a large enterprise to help with a data warehousing initiative. The first project of the initiative is to build a repository for all customer-related data, including sales, finance, inventory, and logistics. It has not yet been determined how the data will be used. What Google Cloud storage system would you recommend that the enterprise use to store that data?
- [ ] A. Cloud Bigtable
- [x] B. BigQuery
- [ ] C. Cloud Spanner
- [ ] D. Cloud Storage

**10.** Data is streaming into a BigQuery table. As the data arrives, it is added to a partition that was automatically created that day. Data that arrives the next day will be written to a different partition. The data modeler did not specify a column to use as a partition key. What kind of partition is being used?
- [x] A. Ingestion time partitioned tables
- [ ] B. Timestamp partitioned tables
- [ ] C. Integer range partitioned tables
- [ ] D. Clustered tables

**11.** You are designing a BigQuery database with multiple tables in a single dataset. The data stored in the dataset is measurement data from sensors on vehicles in the company’s fleet. Data is collected on each vehicle and downloaded at the end of each shift. After that, it is loaded into a partitioned table. You want to have efficient access to the most interesting data, which you define as a particular measurement having a value greater than 100.00. You want to cluster on that measurement column, which is a FLOAT64. When you define the table with a timestamped partitioned table and clustering on the measurement column, you receive an error. What could that error be?
- [ ] A. You cannot use clustering on an external table.
- [ ] B. You cannot use clustering with a FLOAT64 column as the clustering key.
- [ ] C. The table is not the FLOAT64 partition type.
- [x] D. The clustering key must be an integer or timestamp.

**12.** What data formats are supported for external tables in Cloud Storage and Google Drive?
- [ ] A. Comma-separated values only
- [ ] B. Comma-separated values and Avro
- [x] C. Comma-separated values, Avro, and newline-delimited JSON
- [ ] D. Comma-separated values, Avro, newline-delimited JSON, and Parquet
