# Chapter 6 Designing for Security and Compliance

## Identity and Access Management with Cloud IAM
Cloud IAM uses the concept of:
- roles, which are collections of permissions that can be assigned to iden- tities.
- Permissions are granted to roles, and then individuals can be assigned multiple roles to gain these permissions.

Along with roles, additional attributes about resources or identities, such as IP address and date and time, can be considered when making access control decisions; this is known as **context-aware access**.

Cloud IAM maintains an audit log of changes to permissions, including authorizing, removing, and delegating permissions.

To control access to resources in GCP use:
- Predefined roles
- Custom roles
- Using roles with service accounts
- Access controls with policies

In GCP, users, groups, service accounts, and G Suite domains are authorized to access resources by granting those identities roles.

GCP uses three types of roles:
- Primitive roles
- Predefined roles
- Custom roles

### Primitive roles
existed prior to the introduction of Cloud IAM. These roles apply at the project level and so are considered course- grained access controls. They include:
- The Viewer role grants read-only access resources.
- The Editor role includes all Viewer permissions plus the ability to modify the state of aresource.
- The Owner role includes all Editor role permissions and permissions to manage roles and permissions, along with setting up billing for a project.

you should not use primitive roles except in cases where coarse-grained access controls are acceptable. For example, you could use primitive roles to grant access to developers in a development environment, since the developers would be responsible for administering the development environment.

### Predefined Roles
associated with a GCP service, such as App Engine or BigQuery, and a set of related activities, such as editing data in a database or deploying an application to App Engine.

naming convention for roles is:
- start the role name with `roles/`
- followed by a string that identifies the service, such as `appengine`;
- followed by the type of entity to which the role applies, such as `instance` or `table`;
- followed by an operation, such as `get`, `list`, or `create`.

Example roles:
- roles/appengine.deployer
- roles/bigquery.user

the naming convention for permissions is: 
- the name of the service
- followed by a resource type specific to that service and
- an action on resources of that type.

An asterisk to indicate all types of actions applicable to the operation’s resource, such as `get`, `list`, and `create`.

Example permissions:
- appengine.operations.*
- appengine.services.get

### Access Control with Policies
You can also access resources based on the rules associated with the resource. These rules are called policies.
 
```json
{
  "bindings": [
    {
      "members": [
        "user:data-engineer@example.com"
       ],
      "role": "roles/resourcemanager.projectCreator"
    },
  ],
  "etag": "adjfadURHlad",
  "version": 1
}
```

Cloud IAM is a comprehensive service that provides for fine-grained access controls through the use of roles and policies. Predefined roles are available in Cloud IAM and are designed to group permissions needed for common use cases, such as administration of a database. Custom rules can be created when the predefined roles do not meet your specific needs, especially with respect to the principle of least privilege. Roles can also be used with service accounts to provide authorizations to VMs and applications. Also, access control policies can be used to control access to resources.

## Ensuring Privacy with the Data Loss Prevention API
### Detecting Sensitive Data
Google provides hundreds of InfoType detectors to identify known types of sensitive infor- mation, including
- Credit card numbers
- Dates of birth
- Email addresses
- Passport number
- Authentication tokens
- Passwords
There are also country-specific InfoType detectors, such as:
- U.S. Social Security numbers
- Indian GST identification number (GSTIN)
- Japanese bank account numbers
- Spanish national identity numbers
- Paraguay civil identity card numbers

### Inspection Best Practices
Google has identified several best practices for using the Data Loss Prevention API.
- First, you should inventory and prioritize the content you wish to scan. This is especially true if you have a large backlog of content that needs to be scanned. The data that is most at risk should be scanned first.
- Make sure that the Cloud DLP service account has all the correct roles to access your storage services.
- Start by sampling data and using simple matching criteria. This will help you identify which InfoType detectors you should use. You may find that your scans generate more false positives than are acceptable. In that case, you can create exclusion rules to reduce false positives.
- Schedule scans using job triggers. Scans can be configured to inspect only data that has changed since the last scan.
